Add mcp server in opensearch documentation (#9800)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/api/mcp-server-apis/sse-message.md

---
layout: default
title: SSE Message 
parent: Agent APIs
grand_parent: ML Commons APIs
nav_order: 50
---

# SSE Message 
**Introduced 3.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> This is the standard message interaction endpoint of MCP protocol, you can use this API to send messages to MCP server in OpenSearch. Usually you don't need to explicitly interact with this API if you're using standard MCP client. You can checkout the example client here: https://github.com/zane-neo/opensearch-mcpserver-test-example

Reviewer: Can we host this in the ML commons repo instead of your personal one?

Author: Need to confirm with team on this, but if you think this is not the correct approach, I can remove this part for now.

Reviewer: Since this topic will not be used by most users, let's comment out the example for now until we're able to move it to one of the OpenSearch repos.

## Endpoints

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/mcp/sse/message
```

#### Example request

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/mcp/sse/message
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "id": "110",
    "method": "tools/call",
    "params": {
        "name": "ListIndexTool1",
        "arguments": {
            "input": {

>                 "index": ["test"]

Reviewer: For the ListIndexTool, the parameter that specifies index names is `indices`.  Is this one different?

Author: good catch, will change this.

Reviewer: I changed to "indices". Could you verify that this example request works?

Author: It works, there's an extra curly braces and I removed it.

---
layout: default
title: MCP SSE message 
parent: MCP Server APIs
grand_parent: ML Commons APIs
nav_order: 40
---

# MCP SSE message
**Introduced 3.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> This endpoint handles standard message interactions for the Model Context Protocol (MCP). It enables communication with the MCP server in OpenSearch through server-sent events (SSE).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint handles standard message interactions for the Model Context Protocol (MCP). It enables communication with the MCP server in OpenSearch through Server-Sent Events (SSE).
```

| `params.name` | String | Required | The name of the tool to call. |
| `params.arguments` | Object | Required | The arguments to pass to the tool. |
| `params.arguments.input` | Object | Required | The input parameters for the tool. The parameters are dependent on the tool type. For information about specific tool types, see [Tools]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/tools/index/). |

## Example request

The SSE Message API provides direct, low-level access to tools using the [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/) (remote procedure call) protocol structure. This differs from the agent framework approach, where tools are configured using `parameters` during agent registration. When using this API directly, you'll structure your request with `params` and `arguments` fields according to the JSON-RPC specification, bypassing the agent framework entirely:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/mcp/sse/message
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": "110",
  "method": "tools/call",
  "params": {
      "name": "ListIndexTool1",
      "arguments": {
          "indices": ["test"]
      }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> OpenSearch responds with an SSE data stream to the client:

Reviewer 2: Should "sent" follow "stream"? Or do we mean "OpenSearch responds by sending an SSE data stream to the client:"?

> OpenSearch responds with an SSE data stream to the client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch sends an SSE data stream to the client:
```
